---
title: Jed Plugins
---

***JED Resources***

Descriptions courtesy Darth Slaw

[jed\_beta951.zip](jed_beta951.zip) - **Jed v951b** - Well, first off,
you need Jed before you can do anything with the stuff hosted here
(aside from the 3d Heightmapper and JK Calculator). Version 951 is the
latest release.

**Plugins by the Code Alliance**

[adjoinjiffy.zip](adjoinjiffy.zip) **- Adjoin Jiffy** - Allows you to
adjoin two surfaces of different shapes, provided that they have the
same number of vertices.

[assassin.zip](assassin.zip) - **Vertex Assassin** - Ever get those
annoying vertices left over from merging two surfaces? This plugin will
run though your current(selected) surface(s) and delete all those
redundant vertices for you.

[awesomearrays.zip](awesomearrays.zip) - **Awesome Arrays** - Allows you
to copy a set of multiselected sectors, things, and lights using a
linear, rectangular, or circular array pattern.

[beamme.zip](beamme.zip) - **Beam Me in Jed** - Imports jed levels into
other jed levels.

[cleave2vx.zip](cleave2vx.zip) - **Cleave2VX** - Cleave the current
surface between two multiselected surfaces.

[cleavelight.zip](cleavelight.zip) - **CleaveLight** - Cleaves level
surfaces so that when you calculate lighting you end up with high
quality shadows.

[copy\_sf.zip](copy_sf.zip) - **Copy\_SF** - Makes a copy of the current
surface onto each multiselected surface.

[dxfimport\_b2.zip](dxfimport_b2.zip) - **DFX Import** - Import DFX
files into Jed.

[flagman1.zip](flagman1.zip) - **Flagman** - Runs through all the level
surfaces, and for each surface that has the same texture as the current
surface, it will set the Surface flags for those surfaces to the same
value as the current surface.

[freesector102asafe.zip](freesector102asafe.zip) - **Free Sector** -
Draw your sector in 2d. Then, Jed will pump it up into 3d.

[getbent.zip](getbent.zip) - **Get Bent** - Make perfectly curving
pipes.

[goal\_11.zip](goal_11.zip) - **Goal\!** - Generates cogs for your level
objectives.

[gorotate.zip](gorotate.zip) - **Go Rotate** - Make perfect domes and
circular architecture.

[hotkey.zip](hotkey.zip) - **Hotkey Enforcer** - Assign your Jed plugin
hotkeys with this handy tool. Also features the option to fix
conflicting hotkeys and fill in missing slots.

[jed2prj.zip](jed2prj.zip) - **Jed2Prj** - Edit a Jed level and export
it to an Ace\_Dxf project file.

[jedp.zip](jedp.zip) - **JedP** - Shows all the level information, such
as sector count, then layers all things.

[jedveccalc.zip](jedveccalc.zip) - **Jed Vector Calculator** -
Calculates a vector from two multiselected things.

[jktree-src.zip](jktree-src.zip) - **JK Tree source files** - You know
that JKTree plugin that comes with Jed? These are the source files. And
in case you're wondering, JKTree organizes your project directory into
the JK Gob structure (3do, mat, cog, etc. directories)

[KeyMaster.zip](KeyMaster.zip) - **Key Master** - Make simple key files
for animating ships and such.

[lightf.zip](lightf.zip) - **Light Fantastic** - Adds a light to the
center of each individual sector, or to the center of a group of
multiselected sectors. Calculates range based on extents, then
calculates intensity based on the type of lighting you select.

[miniplugins.zip](miniplugins.zip) - **Mini Plugins** - (1) Statman:
Retrieves sector, surface, thing, and light counts and the count of a
user-specified template. (2) CMP Fix: Sets all sector ColorMaps to the
Master Colormap that is defined in the level header. (3) Mat Replace:
Replaces all instances of a user-specified mat with another mat
specified by the user.

[mirrormadness.zip](mirrormadness.zip) - **Mirror Madness** - Mirror a
sector or group of sectors about the current surface.

[movesc2vx.zip](movesc2vx.zip) - **MoveSC2VX** - Moves the sector of a
multiselected vertex to the current vertex.

[mrsector.zip](mrsector.zip) - **Mr. Sector** - Create basic polyhedra
sectors with options for origin offset, scaling, and texturing.

[onpar12.zip](onpar12.zip) - **OnPar** - Export multi-selected vertices
in a single sector as a particle (.par) file.

[pathfinder101.zip](pathfinder101.zip) - **Pathfinder** - Quickly create
path movements for actors.

[pointextruder.zip](pointextruder.zip) - **Point Extruder** - Extrude a
surface to a single point.

[ripper.zip](ripper.zip) - **Ripper** - Slices up existing surfaces by
joining each edge vertex to a new center vertex. Can be used to improve
surface texturing or to simulate natural rock surfaces.

[SecCleave\_10.zip](SecCleave_10.zip) - **SecCleave** - Cleave a sector
or group of multiselected sectors along a plane determined by three
mutiselected vertices.

[SecCleave\_10\_src.zip](SecCleave_10_src.zip) - **SecCleave source
files** - The source files for SecCleave.

[shatter.zip](shatter.zip) - **Shatter** - Quickly create glass surfaces
at adjoins.

[skyflagger.zip](skyflagger.zip) - **SkyFlagger** - A Flagman
specifically designed for the skies.

[staircrazy.zip](staircrazy.zip) - **Stair Crazy** - Create stairs by
selecting those floor surfaces you wish converted into stairs.

[statter.zip](statter.zip) - **Statter\!** - Displays sector, surface,
thing, and light counts in a GUI Enviroment. You can also count how many
instances of a certain template there are.

[thingpack.zip](thingpack.zip) - **Thingpack** - (1) MOVE2SC: Moves the
current thing to the approximate center of the current sector. (2)
MOVE2SF: Moves the current thing to the approximate center of the
current surface. (3) ROTATE2SF: Aligns the current thing to the normal
of the current surface.

[Transsectoral.zip](Transsectoral.zip) - **TransSectoral** - Creates an
external mold of a sector by creating additional sectors at the
surfaces. A good companion for Go Rotate when making domed buildings.

[vinkel\_10.zip](vinkel_10.zip) - **Vinkel** - Runs trough all surfaces
in your level and if it finds a surface with a slope below a user
definied angle it will floor flag it.

[vinkelsrc\_10.zip](vinkelsrc_10.zip) - **Vinkel source files** - Source
files for Vinkel.

[WaterWorks.zip](WaterWorks.zip) - **Water Works** - Quickly create
underwater sectors by selecting a water surface for each sector.
